md/faq.md, before:


## Is this website official? How is this different from the Program of Studies?

This site is unofficial. This site is maintained by APS's CS Teacher PLC. It
does not have approval from the Office of Academics, the CTE office, or any
administration. For official guidance, see the APS Program of Studies or
contact the CTE Office. The official links to the Program of Studies and any
other official standards are linked in each course description.

## I'm in AP CS A now. Which course should I take next year?

This really depends on your interests! At Arlington Tech, we really encourage
everyone to start with Web Design - the first two courses of our sequence are
designed to be exciting, project-based learning classes that teach HTML, CSS,
Javascript, and Python. Students leave these classes with the skills and
experience to develop real, dynamic web applications.

Students who score a 3 or better on the AP CS A exam can "test out" of these
classes through a NOVA program called "Credit for Prior Learning" -  and jump
directly to the third year course, DE Computer Programming II. This course feels
more like a math class - it uses C++ and focuses on preparing students for a CS
program at a university. Note that our pathway currently includes four classes.
Students who take AP CS A in their freshman year and then take DE Computer
Programming II the following year might run out of classes
before their Senior year - but we'll have lots of ideas to help students in
that situation.

So students who score a 3 or better on the AP CS A exam have the luxury of
choosing which of these starting points they prefer. Regardless of the choice,
we work hard to meet students wherever their prior knowledge is, and promise
nobody will ever be bored in any of our classes!

Finally, students should make an honest assesssment of how they will score on
the AP exam. Course signups happen months earlier than AP Exam scores, so
students who wish to take DE Computer Science II will need to be reasonably
confident that they will score a 3. Students who register for this class and
then do not get a 3 on the AP exam will need to have their schedules changed at
the beginning of the school year, and we will not be able to guarantee that DE
Web Design will fit in their schedule at that point.

We're always very happy to discuss these options with any interested students!

## Are students allowed to take courses in any sequence other than what it listed here? Should they?

The only official prerequisites are listed in the Program of Studies. The
pathways suggested on this page are far more strict than those mentioned in the
Program of Studies. 

To maintain the rigor in advanced classes, CS teachers will assume that
students in each class have followed the sequences described on this page

CS teachers are very willing to accomodate students who have experience outside
of our classes, are fast learners, and/or want to challenge themselves by
taking advanced classes. We will provide one-on-one advice, and can provide
resources to help students self-study if they choose to take other course
sequences.

## Why does this site contradict the Program of Studies?

The Program of Studies is limited in its ability to represent the courses as
they are presented in our schools. The Program of Studies matches the course
descriptions provided by VDOE, and the courses in our schools do not always
exactly match the VDOE courses. Most of our courses align with AP, IB, DE, or
other certification exams and must present content beyond the VDOE description.

## How can I ask a question or propose an edit?

For advice about CS classes, reach out to any CS teacher in APS.

For questions or feedback about this page, reach out to Chris Jones, CS teacher
at Arlington Tech:
[christopher.jones@apsva.us](mailto:christopher.jones@apsva.us?subject=apscs%20website)

Commit message:

updating FAQ based on recent questions from ACC students

md/faq.md, after:


## Is this website official? How is this different from the Program of Studies?

This site is unofficial. This site is maintained by APS's CS Teacher PLC. It
does not have approval from the Office of Academics, the CTE office, or any
administration. For official guidance, see the APS Program of Studies or
contact the CTE Office. The official links to the Program of Studies and any
other official standards are linked in each course description.

## I'm in AP CS A now. Which course should I take next year?

This depends on your interests and goals! At Arlington Tech, we really encourage
everyone to start with Web Design - the first two courses of our sequence are
designed to be exciting, project-based learning classes that teach HTML, CSS,
Javascript, and Python. Students leave these classes with the skills and
experience to develop real, dynamic web applications.

Students who score a 3 or better on the AP CS A exam can "test out" of these
classes through a NOVA program called "Credit for Prior Learning" -  and jump
directly to the third year course, DE Computer Programming II. This course feels
more like a math class - it uses C++ and focuses on preparing students for a CS
program at a university. Note that our pathway currently includes four classes.
Students who take AP CS A in their freshman year and then take DE Computer
Programming II the following year might run out of classes
before their Senior year - but we'll have lots of ideas to help students in
that situation.

So students who score a 3 or better on the AP CS A exam have the luxury of
choosing which of these starting points they prefer. Regardless of the choice,
we work hard to meet students wherever their prior knowledge is, and promise
nobody will ever be bored in any of our classes!

Students should make an honest assessment of how they will score on
the AP exam. Course signups happen months earlier than AP Exam scores, so
students who wish to take DE Computer Science II will need to be reasonably
confident that they will score a 3. Students who register for this class and
then do not get a 3 on the AP exam will need to have their schedules changed at
the beginning of the school year, and we will not be able to guarantee that DE
Web Design will fit in their schedule at that point.

If you are interested in jumping from AP CS A to DE Computer Programming II, please also read "What do I need to know ahead of time" below.

## Are students allowed to take courses in any sequence other than what it listed here? Should they?

The only official prerequisites are listed in the Program of Studies. The
pathways suggested on this page are far more strict than those mentioned in the
Program of Studies. 

To maintain the rigor in advanced classes, CS teachers will assume that
students in each class have followed the sequences described on this page

If you are planning to enter any advanced classes at the Arlington Career Center, please also read "What do I need to know ahead of time" below.

CS teachers are very willing to accommodate students who have experience outside
of our classes, are fast learners, and/or want to challenge themselves by
taking advanced classes. We will provide one-on-one advice, and can provide
resources to help students self-study if they choose to take other course
sequences.

## What do I need to know ahead of time?
(This question only applies to courses at ACC)

There are several foundational skills that we teach in our introductory classes. If you take our courses in the sequence suggested, you will be just fine.

If you plan to take courses out of sequence (or to take courses outside or our school over the summer), there are some skills that you will likely not get elsewhere. We'll expect you to study these topics on your own, and won't have time in class to re-teach them. Here is a list of topics you should plan to study on your own:

- Unix Command line tools: We do almost all of our work on the command line. You should be very comfortable using the command line to create and manipulate files.
If you are new to the command line, our favorite learning tool is Terminus: [https://www.mprat.org/Terminus/](https://www.mprat.org/Terminus/)
- Git: We use git very frequently in our classes. You should be comfortable using git from the command line to create and interact with repositories, and should be reasonably comfortable sharing a repo with others, including solving merge issues. If you are new to git, we love this website: [https://learngitbranching.js.org/](https://learngitbranching.js.org/)
- Vi: Vi is a text editor that is built into the command line. We use vi in class for most of our coding. If you're new to vi, we recommend VimTutor: [https://vimschool.netlify.app/introduction/vimtutor/](https://vimschool.netlify.app/introduction/vimtutor/)
- Finally, all students entering CSC222 (Object Oriented Programming) are expected to already be very comfortable with programming concepts in any language. This class is based on C++ and we don't expect that you already know C++, just that you are already comfortable with the concepts behind branching, loops, functions, etc.

Feel free to reach out to us with any questions about any of these, or for more study materials. You'll find that we love talking about these tools!


## Why does this site contradict the Program of Studies?

The Program of Studies is limited in its ability to represent the courses as
they are presented in our schools. The Program of Studies matches the course
descriptions provided by VDOE, and the courses in our schools do not always
exactly match the VDOE courses. Most of our courses align with AP, IB, DE, or
other certification exams and must present content beyond the VDOE description.

## How can I ask a question or propose an edit?

For advice about CS classes, reach out to any CS teacher in APS.

For questions or feedback about this page, reach out to Chris Jones, CS teacher
at Arlington Tech:
[christopher.jones@apsva.us](mailto:christopher.jones@apsva.us?subject=apscs%20website)
